Right, so there's three other versions of the map operations, map to double map to into a map to long,
which transform a stream to a double stream in stream or long stream, respectively, representing streams
of primitive data.
Let's have a look at that.
So we need to pay some code into our main method.
This is our map examples class from the previous video.
We don't accept that import.
So starting at line fifty is the car that I've posted in, and this is looking at it in stream using
map and a stream using map to end and its stream is a stream event, the primitive data talk.
So let's run this.
So there's the output from this segment tonight appear to be any different, right?
Will the output from an extremist map and an output from a stream using map to end if we look at this
code?
Let's try changing map a lot of 53 for our instrument and iterate to map to int.
They could say this is resulting in a pilot error, the method map to end is not a valid operation on
an extreme.
Listen to that.
So let's instead try adding a map method to the second stream.
Let's go down here so I will add a map method directly after the map to end for our stream iterate.
So dot map to parentheses, but is an error token, it's divided by 1000 close in parentheses.
So that actually compiles fine, but not out of here.
That intelligence is offering you additional information about the stream in the form of inlay hints.
By the way, if you've got eyes turned on, make sure method changes.
Check in the dialog window.
I just make sure that you have got eyes turned on.
I got to file settings, preferences if you're on a Mac and Ed in my Hintze Java, so make sure.
And the method chanes.
You've got that turned on or checked, rather, show hints, which I've already got, so I can see these
inlay hints are actually very useful.
What's actually happening when you use a map to internal stream?
So I'm starting out with a stream of integer.
You can say that with the hints online.
Fifty eight to the right hand side and after map to it, you can see there that the stream is now an
inch stream.
You can see that online 60.
So that's very useful to see when the change occurred.
So what happens now if I add another map to operation after the map operation down here?
So I'm going at exactly the same.
I'm going to take a copy of line 60.
And pasted in.
And you can say by doing that, I've introduced a compiler error on the second map to int because I
now have it in stream and map to it is not a valid operation for it.
So I will undo the code.
Right now, let's look at flat map, the flat map operation applies to a one to many transformation
to the elements of the stream and flattens the resulting elements into a new stream.
So submit the declaration is shown below the TV camera angle brackets, a stream of top are flat map
the parameters function, which firstly takes a wildcard lower bounty, and then the second one is a
wildcard upper bound stream of top wildcard up about ah.
So let's compare that with that for a moment.
And remember in the map definition we talked about earlier, both return of stream, both except the
lambda expression or method reference that represents the apply method as shown below.
I we've got apply parameter type T which returns the top are the difference with these two.
Is the object returned from the method.
You could say that flat map is returning a stream.
T represents the top of the element on the stream.
So it's easy to say this operation doesn't sample code.
So let's go back to our code.
We're going to create another entity or element for our streams and we'll call this one course.
And it should have been in the package.
Let's just put it in there.
It is, of course.
This class is just another Podio, but this one has a relationship to student.
You say that we've got an attribute student list, which is a list of student.
It's also got a constructor down here.
The takes, of course, name in and in value and generates a student list using stream to generate limiting
the stream to the past as the second argument, each new student's name is then changed to include the
course name for demonstration purposes.
The stream is returned to the attribute of list of student is in the terminal operation collect.
They've only got one guitar here.
Come down and see that student lists just to simplify the code.
We've also got a two string method there to print the course.
Name a student list.
But of this class is going to be used as a flat map example, so we need to create that class flat map
example.
This class, in its main method is declaring a local variable of lists of student, we're creating a
stream, we're instantiating three courses in the respective student lists using the flat map operation
to create a stream of student objects using the courses, get student lists or stream method, then
returning it all down the bottom as a list of student using the collectors.
The two lists, they're also printing out the list of students.
Let's run this.
And there's the airport of a complete student population, I think you'd agree that's pretty nifty,
right?
We can at peek into the pipeline if you wanted to view each course.
So let's have a go at doing that.
So he come down here after the last new course and put up peak and in parentheses system, got out cold
and and peatland obviously monitoring that before the flat map operation left run this.
We've got more details showing, as you can see.
There's the various output.
Basically, the peak operations are putting each course and its students before the final student list
is printed out.
So in this video and the last one I've covered, the intermediate operations, peak map and flat map,
the peak operation is generally used to inspect the stream pipeline using a consumer lambda expression
that operates on the stream element but returns no value or object.
The map operation performs one to one mappings and data transformations using a functional lambda expression
that operates on the stream element, a return to the same or another element.
The flat map operation performs of one to many mapping using a functional expression that operates on
the stream element returns a stream of the same or some other element.
Moving on in the next video, I'll be reviewing the optional class before proceeding with discussions
of other stream operations.
So I will see you in the next video.